Frequent tested topics
✔ Authentication bases
✔ Salting
✔ Password attacks
✔ Access control list vs capabilities
✔ ABAC example
✔ BLP vs Biba
✔ Inference (definition + direct/indirect)
✔ Client puzzles
✔ Syn cookies
✔ Amplification attacks
✔ Buffer overflow explanation
✔ XSS
✔ Malware classification
✔ Honeypots
✔ Signature vs anomaly IDS
✔ Data ageing

a) 2 commmon authentication base
- something you know (password/PIN)
- something you have (token)

b) Common DoS attack resource targets:
- Network Bandwidth
- Computational resource(cpu/memory)

c) In multilevel access control each subject/object is given
- A security label (classification + category set)

d) Canary Values protect against
- stack buffer overflow by placing a random value be fore the return address

e) Lamport's OTP relies on hash functions being one-way (pre-image resistant)

f) How does UNIX protects user password?
- Stores hashes in /etc/shadow using salt. Only privileged process can access.

g) Explain which two method of generating password is better?
- Compare entropy between 2
- N = possibilities
- Entropy Log2N

h) Describe 2 types of error in authentication systems
- FAR false acceptance rate, attacker accepted
- FRR false rejection rate, legitimate user rejected

i) Access Control Policies
- Discretionary Access Control (DAC)
Up to user discretion to specify who have access
- Mandatory Access Control (MAC)
Control access based on comparing security labels with system policies 
- Role Based Access Control (RBAC)
based on user's role
- Attribute-based Access Control (ABAC)
based on user's attribute

j) Access Control Matrix (ACM)
Name and give example of of each list of representation
- ACL 
Spellbook
RogueCarol: read,write
- Capabilities
RogueCarol
treasure: read
spellbook: read,write

Give an example of ABAC
Only nurses on duty in ward A can access Patients A records

k) Client Based Puzzle
h(C,Ns,Nc,Y) = 000...000X
Describe the components
h: hash function
C: client identity
Ns: server's nonce
Nc: client's nonce
Y: solution of the puzzle
How much work is required to solve the puzzle?
2^k
What is k?
The number of bit missing, determines complexity.
What is the purpose of the puzzle?
Ensure client commit resource to authentication first
What is the context of this diagram?
- Contruction of client puzzles to mitigate DoS
What is h?
- The server's hash function
What is sent to the client?
Sub-puzzle x[j](k+1,L)

Two classes of intruder IDS looks for are
Misfeasors(Insider) and Masqueraders(Outsiders)

What does master password protect?
encrypted password vault

CAPTCHA is capable of distinguishing humans from robots

Data aging ensures older behavioural statistics are down-weighted in IDS profile

Honeypot
- decoy system to identify suspicious traffic
- study attacker, divert real system

Phising Emails are sent in bulk because
- it relies on probability

Inference is the derivation of sensitive information from non-sensitive aggregate data

Online vs offline attacks differ in that:
Online attacks interact with the live authentication system; offline attacks test guesses without system rate-limiting.

The purpose of sanitization in the context of auditing is removing sensitive information before releasing.

Firewalls cannot protect against insider attacks and malware.

Countermeasures to flooding
- Time out
- Random dropping
- Client Puzzles
- Syn cookies
Models
BLP - Confidentiality
Biba - Integrity
Chinese Wall (Brewer and Nash) 
